hedgehog(1) -- podcast player and organizer
===========================================


## SYNOPSIS


`hedgehog` [`--h`\|`--help`] [`--no-mouse`] [`--no-pidfile`] [`--no-mpris`]
[`-V*`\|`*--version`] [`--config-path` <path>] [`--data-path` <paths>]
[<subcommand> <arguments>...]



## DESCRIPTION


Hedgehog is a podcasts player and subscriptions management software that works
within a terminal. Its features include:

 * subscribing to RSS feeds and managing subscriptions;
 * viewing and automatically updating the list of episodes from each feed;
 * keeping track of the episodes' state: whether you played an episode, did
   you finish listening to it or not, remembering when the playback stopped;
 * playing episodes and controlling its playback: play/pause, seek, control
   volume, etc.;
 * searching for feeds online and subscribing to them;
 * importing and exporting the list of feeds from/to other podcast management
   software via OPML documents.

The main interface of Hedgehog contains two panes: the list of feeds you are
subscribed to (along with two special feeds with all episodes and with only new
episodes) and the list of episodes within the selected feed. You can navigate
between different panes using arrow and Tab keys or using a mouse cursor if
your terminal emulator supports it. To start the playback of an episode, you
can either select it and press `Enter` or double-click with a left mouse
button.

See [KEY MAPPING][] section of this manual for the list of default keybinding
which can be reconfigured, and *commands* section for the list of all commands
that Hedgehog supports.



## OPTIONS


* `--no-mouse`:
  Disables the capacity of Hedgehog to read and handle mouse input. If not
  present, you can select list items, start and control playback, change the
  cursor position in the command entry field, etc., but you won't be able to
  select text in the terminal window.
  
* `--no-pidfile`:
  By default, Hedgehog prevents two or more instances of the program from
  running at the same time to prevent inconsistencies in the displayed data.
  This flag prevents this behavior. Note that multiple instances are allowed to
  be executed for different data directories.

* `--no-mpris`:
  Disables Hedgehog's support for MPRIS protocol. This protocol allows
  third-party software to observe the state of playback and control it by
  sending messages through DBus. Note, that not all platforms support this
  functionality Hedgehog may be compiled without it. In such cases, this option
  won't be present.

* `--data-path`:
  Specifies the path from where episodes database, commands history and some
  other files will be read. The default is `~/.local/share/hedgehog/` on
  UNIX-compatible platforms and `%APPDATA%/hedgehog` on Windows. This location
  can be backed-up and copied to another system.

* `--config-path`:
  Specifies a path or a set of paths where Hedgehog will search for the
  configuration files: `rc` files and themes. These paths extend the set of
  default paths. For more information on configuration, see the
  [CONFIGURATION][] section of this manual.

* `export` <file>:
  A sub-command for exporting the list of podcast feeds managed by Hedgehog in
  OPML format. This can be later imported into nother podcast management
  programs. <file> is a path to an XML file where the exported data will be
  written or a dash (`-`) in which case the exported data will be written
  to standard output.

* `import` <file>:
  Adds the set of the podcast feeds to the database. Episodes from these feeds
  will be fetched on the next launch. Duplicate feeds will be ignored. <file>
  is a path to an XML file in OPML format that will be read or a dash (`-`) in
  which case the data will be read from the standard input.



## COMMANDS


You control Hedgehog TUI by issuing commands either directly (by pressing `:`,
entering the name of a command and its arguments, and submitting it with the
`Enter` key) or indirectly, by pressing a key combination mapped to a specific
command. There are few exceptions, such as actions performed with a mouse or
through the MPRIS interface.

When entering commands manually, some keys have a special meaning. Hedgehog
tries to follow established conventions. These keys cannot be remapped, and you
can find their list in the [COMMAND ENTRY KEY MAPPING][] subsection.

The remaining of this section lists the supported commands and their
description.


### NAVIGATION

* `line first`:
  Selects the first line in the current list.

* `line last`:
  Selects the last line in the current list.

* `line page-up`:
  Moves the selection up by an entire screen.

* `line page-down`:
  Moves the selection down by an entire screen.

* `line move-by` <number>:
  Moves the selection down (if <number> is positive) or up (if <number> is
  negative) by the specific number of rows.

* `line scroll-by` <number>:
  Scrolls the current list down (if <number> is positive) or up (if <number> is
  negative) by the specific number of rows and keeps the selected row. If after
  scrolling, the selection is not visible, the closest visible row will be
  selected (with some margin from the edge of a screen).

* `focus` <pane-name>:
  Sets the currently selected pane. The selected pane is highlighted in the UI
  and all line commands listed above affect the list contained in this pane.
  Possible values for <pane-name> are listed below.

* `log`:
  Opens the list of errors. This command is a shorthand for `focus log`.

* `quit` or `q`:
  Exits Hedgehog.
    
<pane-name> is an argument used by some commands and it names the section of
the UI that is currently selected and is ready to handle users' interaction.
The possible values for <pane-name> are:

 * `feeds`: the list of feeds located on the right-hand side of the library
   view
 * `episodes`: the list of the episodes in a feed;
 * `search`: the list of search results. Search can be initiated using the
   `search` command. When this pane is selected manually, Hedgehog shows
   results from the previous search;
 * `log`: the list of errors that occurred during the current session, these
   errors include networking errors, configuration issues, etc.; 


### PLAYBACK

* `play-current`:
  Starts playback of the currently selected episode from the position when the
  playback stopped before. If this episode was never played or if it was
  finished, the playback starts from the beginning.

* `stop`:
  Immediately terminates playback. Playback then can be restarted only by
  selecting the episode again.

* `finish`:
  Immediately terminates playback and marks the previously playing episode as
  finished.

* `pause`:
  Pauses the playback. It can be then resumed using `resume` or
  `toggle-pause` commands.

* `resume`:
  Resumes the playback from the current position.

* `toggle-pause`:
  Toggles between playing and paused states. This command is equivalent to
  either `pause` or `resume` depending on the current state of the playback.

* <duration>:
  If the playback is active, changes the current position in the stream to the
  specified <duration>. This action may cause a temporary break in the
  playback due to buffering. The paused status of the playback won't be changed
  by this command.

  <duration> is specified in seconds, minutes, and hours separated by a colon.
  Only seconds are required. For example `160`, `2:40`, and `0:02:40` are
  equivalent. Leading zeros are allowed.

* `seek` <signed-duration>:
  If the playback is active, changes the current position in the stream by the
  specified duration relative to the current position. The <signed-duration>
  may be preceded by either `+` or `-` characters, which indicate whether the
  seek operation will be performed forwards or backwards.

* `rate` <real-number>:
  Changes the playback rate of the current stream. If the argument equals 1.0,
  the episode will be played at normal speed, any value less than 1.0 will
  cause the playback will be slowed down, and if the value is greater than 1.0,
  the playback will be sped up.

* `mute`, `unmute`, `toggle-mute`:
  Changes the muted status for the playback. The muted status does not affect
  the current volume, when unmuting, the playback volume will be restored to
  the previous value. `toggle-mute` variant of this command toggles between
  muted and unmuted states.

* `vol-set` <volume>:
  Sets the volume to the specified value. <volume> must be a number between 0
  and 100.

* `vol-adjust` <signed-volume>:
  Changes the current volume by a specified amount. **signed volume** has the
  same unit as in the **vol-set** command: the range is -100 to 100.


### SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGEMENT

* `add` <rss-url>:
  Adds a new subscription. Hedgehog will try to fetch the feed metadata and
  episodes list immediately after it finishes. Note, that <rss-url> must
  point to the RSS feed, Hedgehog will not try to determine the URL of the RSS
  feed from the HTML page's metadata.

* `delete-feed`:
  Removes the feed and all its episodes. This action cannot be undone.

* `update` [`--this`]:
  Updates the feed metadata and the episodes list. If new episodes are found in
  the feed, they will appear in the library marked "new". If `--this` attribute
  is specified, then only the currently selected feed will be updated.
  Otherwise, all feeds that haven't been disabled will be updated.

* `enable`, `disable`:
  Enables or disables the feed. If you disable the feed, then it won't be
  scheduled to be updated by neither the `update` command nor automatically on
  launch.

* `open-link feed`, `open-link episode`:
  Opens the WWW URL specified in the feed or episode metadata respectively in
  the default browser.

* `hide`:
  Hides the currently selected episode from the episodes list. Note, that it
  won't be deleted from the database. The hidden episodes aren't shown in the
  library by default. This can be enabled by issuing the command
  `set hidden true`.

* `unhide`:
  Removed the hidden status from the currently selected episode. To issue this
  command, Hedgehog needs to be configured to show hidden episodes (using
  command *set hidden true*; it can be reverted by issuing `set hidden false`)

* `mark` <status> [`--all`] [`--if` <status-conditiol>]:
  Changes the status of the episode. The <status> can be either `new`, `seen`,
  or `finished`. By default, only the currently selected episode will be
  affected. If `--all` attribute is specified, then all episodes in the
  currently selected feed will be altered. In this case, it can be useful to
  update only a subset of episodes, for example, you may want to mark all new
  episodes in the new feed as seen. `--if` attribute specifies a precondition
  for such update. `status-condition` can be either `new`, `seen`, `finished`,
  `started`, or `error`.

* `reverse`:
  Changes the order of episodes in the selected feed. By default, episodes are
  displayed in reverse chronological order (starting with the newest). This
  command changes this order for a single feed. This preference is saved in the
  database and will remain after the restart.

* `search` <query> or `s` <query>:
  Starts the search session. When this command is issued, Hedgehog performs a
  search for podcast feeds online and `search` pane comes into focus.

* `search-add`:
  Subscribes to the currently selected feed in the search pane.


### CONFIGURATION

* `confirm` <prompt> <command> [`--default` <bool>]:
  Displays confirmation prompt and askes the user for confirmation.
  The <command> will be executed only on an affirmative response. `--default`
  attribute specifies the default behavior, whether the command will be
  executed (if `true`) or not (`false`) when the `Enter` key is pressed.

* `exec` <path>:
  Reads the file at path and executes commands in it. Each command must be
  specified on a separate line; empty lines or lines containing only comments
  (starting with `#`) are ignored. All commands will be executed until the
  first failure or until the end of the file is reached. 
  
  <path> can be either absolute or relative. If <path> is relative, Hedgehog
  will try to find a file in any of the paths specified in the list of data
  directories. See details in the [CONFIGURATION][] section of the manual.

* `map` <key> <command> [`--state` <pane>]:
  Maps <command> to a specific key combination <key>. You can specify different
  mapping for different states depending on which pane is currently selected.
  If `--state` option is specified, then the key mapping will be active only if
  this specific pane is selected. Mapping with a specific state has higher
  precedence than mappings without one.

* `unmap` <key> [`--state` <pane>]:
  Removes the key mapping. See the documentation for the `map` command above
  for the meaning behind `--state` attribute. Note that when unmapping the
  key, you need to specify the same state as was specified when mapping:
  `unmap` <key> without `--state` does not remove state-specific
  keybindings.

* `set` <option-name> <value>:
: Updates the property controlling how Hedgehog looks like and behaves. The
  list of properties is described in the [CONFIGURATION][] section of this
  manual.

`map` and `unmap` commands accept <key> argument specified in the format
similar to the one used by `vim` and some other software. Key specification
consists of zero or more modifiers followed by the key's name. Allowed modifier
are:

 * `S` or `Shift` for the shift key,
 * `C`, `Ctrl`, or `Control` for the control key,
 * `A`, `Alt`, `M`, or `Meta` for the alt key.

Most keys can be specified with a single character (such as numbers, Latin
letters, etc.). The rest have aliases:

 * `Left`, `Up`, `Right`, `Down` for arrow keys,
 * `Enter`, `Return`, `CR` for the enter key,
 * `BS`, `Backspace` for the backspace key,
 * `Home`, `End`, `PageUp`, `PageDown` for common cursor position
   manipulation keys,
 * `Tab` for the tab key,
 * `Del`, `Delete` for the delete key,
 * `Esc` for the escape key,
 * `Space` for the space key,
 * `Bar` for the `|` key,
 * `Minus` for the `-` key,
 * `Insert` for the insert key,
 * `Nul` for the character with code 0,
 * `F1`, `F2`, ... for functional keys.

Modifiers and keys and separated by dashes (`-`), for example, `C-c` for
`Control+C`, `A-S-W` for `Alt+Shift+W`. Please note that keys are
case-sensitive: if you include the Shift modifier, then the key should be
uppercase if applicable (`S-A` is correct while `S-a` won't work).



## CONFIGURATION


Hedgehog is configured by executing the commands described in the [COMMANDS][]
section of this manual. The effect of these commands lasts until Hedgehog
restarts. In order for the configuration to be persistent across restarts, they
should be inserted in the `rc` file in the config directory.

Hedgehog considers multiple directories when loading its configuration: command
lists and themes, in a way that is similar to how *PATH* environment variable
is used by the operating system. The configuration path can be configured via
`--data-path` CLI argument for Hedgehog executable or `HEDGEHOG_DATA`
environment variables. Both these options append the set of directories to the
default paths. The default paths are:

 * `/usr/share/hedgehog` and `./usr/share/hedgehog` (only on UNIX-based OSes);
 * the parent directory of the Hedgehog's executable (only on Windows); *
   user's config directory: `~/.config/hedgehog` on UNIX-based OSes and
   `\Users\<user>\AppData\Roaming` on Windows.

When looking for a file to load (using `exec` or `theme load` command) Hedgehog
searches for the existing file by iterating through data directories from the
last one to the first one, meaning the directory specified by the user has the
highest priority, and global configuration has the lowest.

An exception to this rule is loading the startup commands. There is a special
file named `rc` in the data directory. Hedgehog will execute commands in such
files in all data directories in the opposite order: starting with the
system-wide configuration followed by user-defined configuration files.

Each configuration file (both `rc` file and themes) contains a series of
commands, each located on a separate line. The interpreter ignores empty lines
and comments (sections starting with `#`).


### CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

This section list options that can be set using the *set* command.

* `date_format`:
  The format of the publication date following the syntax of *strftime(3)*
  function.

* `label_playback_status_playing`:
  The label displaying in the player status bar in the playing state.

* `label_playback_status_paused`:
  The label displaying in the player status bar in the paused state.

* `label_playback_status_bufffering`:
  The label displaying in the player status bar when the audio stream is
  buffering.

* `label_playback_status_none`:
  The label displaying in the player status bar when no episode is playing.

* `label_playback_status_none`:
  The label displaying in the player status bar when no episode is playing.

* `label_episode_new`:
  The label displaying in the library when the episode is new.

* `label_episode_seen`:
  Label displaying in the library when the episode is not new but hasn't been
  played. An episode can reach this status using `mark` command.

* `label_episode_playing`:
  The label displaying in the library when the episode is currently being played.

* `label_episode_started`:
  The label displaying in the library when the episode was started but not
  completed and is not currently playing.

* `label_episode_finished`:
  The label displaying in the library when the episode was completed.

* `label_episode_finished`:
  The label displaying in the library when the previous playback attempt has failed
  with an error.
 
* `label_feed_error`:
  The label displaying in the library list for feeds that could not be updated due
  to an error.

* `label_feed_updating`:
  The label displaying in the library list for feeds that are currently being
  loaded.

* `label_feed_updating`:
  The flag indicating whether enabled feeds should be updated on startup.

* `show_episode_number`:
  The flag indicating whether episode and season number should be displayed for
  episodes in the library.
 
* `hidden`:
  The flag indicating whether the episodes that are hidden using the *hide* command
  should be visible in the library.

* `progress_bar_width`:
  The number of characters allocated to the progress indicator in the player
  state bar.

* `progress_bar_chars`:
  The string, characters of which are used for the progress indicator.



## THEMING


Hedgehog allows extensive customization of colors and text styles for any
component of its user interface. As with any other customization option,
changing the visual style of the program is performed via issuing commands.
Hedgehog supports a separate category of theming commands. They can be issued
us subcommands of `theme` or loaded from a separate file via `theme load` (the
`theme` prefix isn't used for commands in the theme file).


### THEMING COMMANDS

* `reset`:
  Clears all styles. After this command is executed, all styling assigned to
  any component in any state will be cleared.

* `load` <file> [`--extend`]:
  Reads a file and executes all theming commands from it. Note that <file>
  can be either an absolute or relative path. In case of a relative path,
  Hedgehog applies the same logic as for searching the configuration files but
  with a small difference. The theme file may have a `.theme` extension. 
  
  Hedgehog will try to locate a file both with and without it, all existing
  styling is cleared before a theme file is loaded. Inclusion of `--extend`
  flag prevents this.

* `set` <selector> <style-modifiers>:
  Applies the styling to a component identified by the <selector>. The syntax
  of each argument is specified further.


### STYLE SYNTAX

Styles are specified using a special syntax where multiple modifiers separated
by single or multiple whitespace characters.

* `fg:`<color>, `bg:`<color>:
  Sets the foreground or background color of a component, respectively. The
  color itself can be specified using any of three ways: a 24-bit RGB color in
  hexadecimal form preceded by a percentage sign (`%FFFFFF` for white), an
  8-bit xterm color preceded by a dollar sign (`$231` for `White/Grey100`) or
  using a color's name (either `black`, `blue`, `cyan`, `darkgray`, `gray`,
  `green`, `lightblue`, `lightcyan`, `lightgreen`, `lightmagenta`, `lightred`,
  `lightyellow`, `magenta`, `red`, `white`, or `yellow`). There is a special
  color identified by the keyword *reset` which corresponds to the terminal's
  default background or foreground color. Please note that not all color modes
  may be supported by your terminal emulator. Named colors may also be
  overridden by the terminal's configuration.

* `+`<modifier>, `-`<modifier>:
: Adds or removes a modifier. A modifier is a special attribute of a terminal
  cell that changes some of its visual characteristics. Removing a modifier is
  useful when you want to override the existing styling of a component with
  modifiers already applied. Note, that different terminal emulators may
  interpret some modifiers differently or not support them at all.

The modifiers list include:

 * `bold` increases the text intensity,
 * `crossedout` crosses the text,
 * `dim` decreases the text intensity,
 * `hidden` hides the text,
 * `italic` emphasizes the text,
 * `rapidblink` makes the text blinking (≥ 150 times per minute),
 * `reversed` swaps background and foreground color,
 * `slowblink` makes the text blinking (≤ 150 times per minute),
 * `underlined` underlines the text.


### SELECTOR SYNTAX

A selector is a string that identifies a UI element in a specific state.
Selectors follow any of the following forms:

* `statusbar.empty`:
  The status bar (the bottom row of the screen) when it doesn't display any
  content.

* `statusbar.command`[`.prompt`]:
  The status bar when it's used for command entry. `.prompt` is used for the
  command's prompt (colon at the beginning) only.

* `statusbar.confirmation`:
  The status bar when it's used for prompting the user to confirm some action.

* `statusbar.status`[`:error`|`:warning`|`:information`][`.label`]:
  The status bar when it's used for displaying the status message. The status
  can be of different severities (`error`, `warning` or `information`). 
  The `label` is a short string placed before some messages (mostly errors).

* `list.divider`:
  The divider between two columns or rows in the library.

* `list.item`(<item-state>)*[<item-component>]:
  where <br> 
  <item-state>=`:focused`|&#8203;`:selected`|&#8203;`:playing`<!--
    -->|&#8203;`:hidden`|&#8203;`:missing-title`|&#8203;`:feed`<!--
    -->|&#8203;`:feed-updating`|&#8203;`:feed-error`|&#8203;`:feed-special`<!--
    -->|&#8203;`:episode`|&#8203;`:episode-error`|&#8203;`:episode-new`<!--
    -->|&#8203;`:episode-started`|&#8203;`:episode-finished`|&#8203;`:search`<!--
    -->|&#8203;`:log-entry` <br>
  <item-component>=`.state`|&#8203;`.title`|&#8203;`.feed-title`<!--
    -->|&#8203;`.episode-number`|&#8203;`.duration`|&#8203;`.date`<!--
    -->|&#8203;`.loading`|&#8203;`.author`|&#8203;`.genre`<!--
    -->|&#8203;`.episodes-count`|&#8203;`.new-count`|&#8203;`.details` <br><br>

  The list item or its component. The list item can be in multiple states: It
  can belong to a list that is focused (`:focused`), it can be selected
  (`:selected`), it can describe an episode that is currently being played
  (`:playing`), an episode that was hidden from the feed but is visible due to
  value of `hidden` option, an episode or feed for which there is no title (for
  example, it wasn't specified by the podcast's creator, or it wasn't loaded
  yet, `:missing-title`). 

  The rest of the state options define an entry in a specific list and in a
  context-specific state. Options starting with `:feed` describe list entries
  in the list of feeds the user is subscribed to. More specific states allow
  restricting styling for certain situations only: feeds that are in the
  process of being updated (`:feed-updating`), if the previous attempt to
  update it failed (`:feed-error`), and if the feed is special: either the list
  of all episodes from all subscriptions or all new episodes (`:feed-special`).

  Episode list entries (`:episodes`) can be selected by their state also:
  episodes can be either new, meaning never played (`:episode-new`), started 
  meaning that playback was started but stopped before the entirety of the 
  episode was listened to (`:episode-started`), finished when the episode was
  listened to until the end (`:episode-finished`), or playback failed due to an
  error (`:episode-error`).

  The search results entries and message log entries can be specified via 
  `:search` and `:log-entry` respectingly.

  Styling can be applied to the whole row or a specific part of it. For a later
  case, you may extend this selector with the name of such part. Some of these
  are used by many lists. These include the name of the feed or episode
  (`.name`), a state indicator usually displayed on the right (`.state`), and an
  ellipsis that are displayed when the data is being loaded from the database
  for more time than usual. Most though are list specific. The episodes list
  includes an episode and season number (`.episode-number`), the name of a feed
  where this episode is located (`.feed-title`), the duration of the episode
  (`.duration`), the date when it was published (`.date`). Search result
  entries include the name of the autor who publishes the podcast (`.author`),
  its genre (`.genre`), the number of episodes in the feed (`.episodes-count`).
  The list of feeds along with the title includes a number of new episodes
  (`.new-count`). The log entry details are selected as `.details`.

  This selector is also used for empty parts of the list.

* `empty`[`:focused`][`.title`|`.subtitle`]:
  The list with no entries. It usually contains a title (`.title`) and a text
  describing why the list is empty and what can be done to change that
  (`.subtitle`). As is a regular list, the empty list can be in the focused
  state (`:focused`). It's recommended that styling for lists and empty lists
  match in regard to the focused state.

* `player`[<player-status>][<player-element>]:
  where <br>
  <player-status>=`:buffering`\|`:paused`\|`:playing`\|`:stopped` <br>
  <player-element>=`.episode`\|`.feed`\|`.progress`\|`.status`\|`.timing` <br><br>

  The playback status bar on the second from the bottom line of the screen. It
  consists of some parts which are (from left to right): status indicating the
  current playback status (buffering, paused, etc., `.status`), the name of
  the episode (`.episode`), the name of a feed containing the currently playing
  episode (`.feed`), the progress bar (`.progress`), and the current position
  within the stream along with its total duration (`.timing`).

  The remaining options allow you to specify different styles depending on the
  current state of the playback.

Above, `[...]` denotes an optional part, `...|...` denotes that either of two
or more options can be used, `(...)*` denotes the part that can repeat or not
be present.

Selectors can be specific, describing a single UI element in a specific state
or be general, specifying many elements or not specifying a state. When the
style is applied using a selector, it is applied to all components that can be
described by it in the order the styling is set. For example styles for 
`player.status` will override `player:playing.status`, so more specific styles
should be specified later than more general ones.



## KEY MAPPING


This section describes the default key mapping of Hedgehog. Note that any key
mapping can be changed by custom configuration via *man* and *unmap* commands.

 * `Up`, `k` moves the selection one row up,
 * `Down`, `j` moves the selection one row down,
 * `Home` moves to the first row in the list,
 * `End` moves to the last row in the list,
 * `PageUp` moves to the item one screen up,
 * `PageDown` moves to the item one screen down,
 * `Tab` toggles between feeds and episodes lists,
 * `Enter` either focuses on the episodes list, starts playing the episode, or
   subscribes to the search result depending on the context,
 * `Esc` returns to the library from either the error log or search results,
 * `C-c`, `q` quits Hedgehog (includes confirmation),
 * `Delete` deletes the currently selected feed (includes confirmation),
 * `o` opens either podcast's or episode's Web URL,
 * `f` stops playback and marks the episode as finished,
 * `Right` moves forward by 5 seconds,
 * `Left` moves backwards by 5 seconds,
 * `c` toggles between paused and playing states,
 * `m` toggles between muted and unmuted states,
 * `Minus` decreases volume by 10%,
 * `=`, `+`, `S-+` increases volume by 10%,
 * `:` begins command entry (cannot be remapped).


### COMMAND ENTRY KEY MAPPING

The following are key combinations available in the command entry mode. These
cannot be remapped.

 * `C-c`, `Esc` stops entry, discards the input,
 * `Backspace`, `C-h` removes character before the cursor,
 * `Delete` removes character after the cursor,
 * `Up`, `Down` navigates through commands history,
 * `Enter` stops entry, accepts and executes the command,
 * `Tab` performs completion,
 * `Left` moves the cursor one character to the left,
 * `Right` moves the cursor one character to the right,
 * `C-Left` moves the cursor one word to the left,
 * `C-Right` moves the cursor one word to the right,
 * `Home` moves the cursor to the first character,
 * `End` moves the cursor to the last character,
 * `Backspace`, `C-h` removes character before the cursor,
 * `Delete` removes character after the cursor,
 * `S-Backspace` removes all characters before the cursor,
 * `S-Delete` removes all characters after the cursor,
 * `A-Backspace`, `C-w` removes a word after the cursor,
 * `C-Delete` removes a word before the cursor.


## BUGS

If you find a bug, you have a recommendation or suggestions for Hedgehog,
please file an issue at <https://github.com/poletaevvlad/Hedgehog/issues>. If
you wish to contribute to Hedgehog, you are welcome to participate in the
development at <https://github.com/poletaevvlad/Hedgehog>
